[TN] Optimizing Apollo Router Container Builds with Kaniko (#348)
apollographql/docs: src/content/technotes/TN0030-optimizing-router-builds.mdx

---

> title: Optimizing Apollo Router Builds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Optimizing Custom Apollo Router Builds
```

May be worth flagging that this applies to custom build/those with plugins. Not sure the edit makes it any clearer, however.

id: TN0030
tags: [router]
---

While running the Apollo Router in production has great performance, this comes at the cost of increased build time and higher system requirements when compiling from source.

> Building the Apollo Router including custom plugins from source is a memory-expensive process, as such it’s not suited for all environments.
> Some cloud build pipelines such as Google Cloud Build, will require changes to the default build configuration in order to increase the memory and cpu capacity of the build worker pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building the Apollo Router including custom plugins from source is a memory-expensive process, and as such it’s not suited for all build environments.

Some cloud build pipelines such as Google Cloud Build, will require changes to the default build configuration in order to increase the memory and CPU capacity of the build worker pool.
```

> The router will also download a large collection of dependencies during the build process, as such we can use the [Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko) project which will cache intermediate build layers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The router will also download a large collection of dependencies during the build process each build by default. We can use [Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko) to cache intermediate build layers.
```

Unsure if this helps or not; just some flow edits to help explain _why_ we're using Kaniko.

Reviewer: Also may be worth noting _how_ this works as I'm not sure how it caches across GCB runs.

> In this example for Google Cloud Build we have replaced the standard docker [gcr.io/cloud-builders/docker](http://gcr.io/cloud-builders/docker) container image, with [gcr.io/kaniko-project/executor](http://gcr.io/kaniko-project/executor).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example for Google Cloud Build, we have replaced the standard docker [gcr.io/cloud-builders/docker](http://gcr.io/cloud-builders/docker) container image, with [gcr.io/kaniko-project/executor](http://gcr.io/kaniko-project/executor).
```

> This is all thats needed to enable caching of the intermediate build steps which will be pushed to the destination container repo as soon as each layer is built.
> So even failed builds will contribute to increased build speeds as successful layers are cached. We also change the default `options.machineType` value to `E2_HIGHCPU_8`, this is because the default worker pool doesn’t have the cpu or memory resources necessary to compile the router.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is all that's needed to enable caching of the intermediate build steps. Each step will be pushed to the destination container repo as soon as each layer is built, so even failed builds will contribute to increased build speeds as successful layers are cached. 

We also changed the default `options.machineType` value to `E2_HIGHCPU_8`, this is because the default worker pool doesn’t have the CPU or memory resources necessary to compile the router.
```

```yaml
#cloudbuild.yaml

steps:
  - id: Build Router

> 		name: gcr.io/kaniko-project/executor:latest

Reviewer: might be worth checking these for whitespace settings- git is marking it. non-blocking, just odd.
